NLNOG RING Security considerations

ROLES:

Regular users:
    These users will have shell access to all servers in the Ring. They
    will have no sudo or root rights. They will not be allowed to do
    modifications to the systems and are not allowed to install packages.
    This group will be the main users of the Ring Servers. These users
    should be able to troubleshoot and debug with tools like mtr,
    traceroute, tcpdump and ping. 

Owners:
    An owner is a useraccount who has donated a server to the ring. He has
    root/sudo access on his own machine and is allowed to make changes he
    sees fit (and hopefully not disrupt the functionality of the system
    ;-). Owners are expected to install software like vmware-tools,
    munin-node or n2. Also, they might make backups of their system with
    rsync. Owners do not have to take care of security updates, user
    management or the installation of software. This will be done from a
    central management system: puppet. 

Ring-Admins
    This is a small group of publicly known people whom the owners trust
    with sudo access on their systems. Ring-admins will manage the ring:
    installation and updating of software, creation of users and will be
    the first line of support in case of abuse tickets. Currently the
    ring-admins are Job Snijders, Edwin Hermans, Martin Pels and Peter van
    Dijk. 

MACHINE ROLES:

Regular ring node:
    This is a machine donated by an organisation. Regular users from all
    organisations in the ring can logon to these machines to perform tasks
    related to network troubleshooting. The owner of a node has full rights
    to his node, but not others. 

Master server:
    These machines are a starting point for regular users to maintain their
    ssh keys, update contact information about their organisation. We
    currently envion having two master machines in seperate networks for
    redundacy purposes. Ring-Admins manage the master servers. 

Log server:
    This machine sole purpose is to receive logs from all servers related
    to the ring and securely store them. It will be publicly known who
    hosts a log server and who has access to it. These servers are managed
    by the ring-admins. 

LOGGING:

TTY Logging:
    We hope to implement a form of tty logging to audit users and have a
    method to trace problems back to individual users. The fact that every
    thing on regular nodes will be logged can prevent and discourage abuse.
    Logs will be written to central log servers which are managed and
    accessed solely by ring-admins. 

Syslogging:
    All syslog messages will be send to central logservers. 

SOFTWARE:

Puppet:

Smokeping:

Munin:

Backups:

