NLNOG RING Project - User Guide

PROVISIONING A SERVER:
    
    Install ubuntu in accordance with the requirements. The user that is 
    created by the installation can be called 'nlnog'. Please send one the
    FQDN of the machine and the password (pgp encrypted) to one of the
    ring-admins. The ring-admin will install puppet and setup dns in the
    ring.nlnog.net zone. When installation is finished the nlnog user will
    be removed from the machine. 

    PGP & SSH Keys are available at: http://ring.nlnog.net/

    After you have been notified that the server has been added to the ring
    and is under control of the puppetmaster, there are the following tasks
    you need to perform:

    - login with your assigned username & the ssh-key you gave us
    
    - change the root password to something extremely hard to guess with 
        "passwd root". Keep in mind, only you will know this password, 
        it is meant to be used only in emergencies. 
        
    - If you don't change the password the user root cannot login.
        
    - add additional ssh keys to your authorized_keys and run the 
        'ring-sync-ssh-keys' script to rsync the authorized_keys file from
        your machine to all others. This way you can give co-workers access
        to the ring.

USING THE RING:

    - a lot of utilities are available to you, see the
        doc/installed_packages.txt file for a full list. If you need a package
        please email ring-admins@ring.nlnog.net with your request. Generally we
        only install packages available to a stock Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat
        install.

    - Never use passwords on the ring, only use ssh-keys. 

    - There are some custom ring scripts available to you to execute
      commands on all or a subset of the servers.

RING SCRIPTS:
    
    ring-rsync-ssh-keys
        
        This script will synchronize all the public ssh keys from the
        machine you are currently logged onto to all other servers in the
        ring. This script is available on all Ring servers. This script is
        useful if you want to add the public ssh keys of your co-workers to
        the ring. Keep in mind that puppet will ensure that the ssh key
        that was given to the ring-admins will always be present in the
        .ssh/authorized_keys file. You are responsible for adding
        additional keys of your co-workers through this script. In case of
        abuse the whole account will be terminated, be careful who you give
        access to the ring. 
